

#<# EXTRACTED PAGE START 0001 #>#

USMC Television and Motion Picture Liaison Office
Los Angeles Weekly Report — May 20, 2011

** NOTICE: This report contains information on the development and progress of TV programs, feature
films, and other entertainment-oriented media projects. This information is shared with the Marine Corps
for the purpose of determining whether the project qualifies for Department of the Navy and Department
of Defense support. It is pre-decisional information for our Chain-of-Command. IT IS NOT INTENDED
FOR PUBLIC DISSEMINATION.
The information contained in this report, if publicly disclosed, could be financially and professionally
detrimental to the entertainment media production entity or individual filmmaker(s) providing the
information, and would deter these companies and individuals from seeking Marine Corps assistance.
MOVIE PROJECTS: -
“Batman” — Warner Bros: OshKosh Defense has expressed interest in supporting the
movie with vehicles. Conference call held mid-April with Christopher Nolan, director
and support is doubtful as they are unwilling to reveal the script. LA PA has lead
because Marine Corps is the PM for M-ATV and LSVR vehicles.
TELEVISION PROJECTS:
“MADE” — MTV Films: Producers with MTV requested to film a homecoming for a
soon-to-be returning Marine from Afghanistan. The Marine is a brother of the
episode’s main subject. LAPA is currently in discussion with the producers on
the details of their request and awaiting response on what unit the Marine is
assigned.
“VEEP” — HBO: Executive Producer and LA PA met to discuss support for a
series which focuses on the office of the Vice President of the United States.
Julia Louise-Dreyfus will play the Vice President. Production would like to take
cast to Camp Pendleton for a tour to learn about Marines. Production is also
interested in access to HMX-1. LA PA will discuss support with OASD-PA and
other commands prior to making decision.
“Extreme Chef” — Food Network: Producers with Smart Dog Media have requested to
have a Marine recently returned from deployment judge a cook-off at his off-base home
along with his family. | MEF sent the request on 4 May to subordinate commands to find
a possible candidate. LAPA sent an additional request to film a possible family on
13 May. Awaiting response from IMEF or RC(SW).
“Swamp Loggers” - Discovery Channel: MCAS New River reached out to production
company in Jacksonville and coordinated filming at the MCAS New River Air Show.
This episode will focus on the host's love of the military and demonstrate capabilities of
Marine Corps rotary wing aircraft. LA PA has a singed production assistance


#<# EXTRACTED PAGE START 0002 #>#

agreement in place and filming is being conducted this weekend. Awaiting rough cut
and air date.

“Top Chef: Masters” — Bravo: Magical Elves Inc. treated a corporal from 3 MAW to an
elaborate “reunion dinner” for service members (one from each branch) who recently
returned from deployment. The service members were joined by their families and
several other military members from all branches. Episode was shot Feb. 18 at the VFW
Hall in Los Angeles. Awaiting rough cut and air date.

“Sniper: Bulletproof” — History Channel: Karga Seven Pictures, following the success of
their two previous History Channel specials on snipers, has been commissioned for
another two-hour special. Producers requested to shoot with Sniper School on CPEN.
TECOM has approved. SOI leadership will hold a planning meeting with producers
the week of May 16-20.

“NCIS” —- CBS: Supported Season Finale with Marines of 2/23 conducting funeral
detail on 20 Apr. Episode will air May 17".

“Coming Home (formerly Homecoming)” — Lifetime: Producers wrapped principle
production April 14 after completing eight stories on Marines -- two A stories and six B
stories. The A story in the season finale features a Marine from 1st MLG. Reviewed
rough cut for episodes 110 and 111, which each feature one Marine B story. No issues
in either episode. Episodes air May 15 and 22 respectively. Lifetime has also requested
to extend production of the series for eight more episodes. LA PA has requested
detailed ratings statistics and is carefully weighing the value of supporting future
episodes. Reviewed rough cut episode 112 May 19. Episode features a Marine B
story. LAPA informed producers to correct the rank of the Marine.

“Bucket List” — No Distribution: A producer with Aventra Studios requested to film a
Marine combat veteran drive a NASCAR car at the Richard Petty Driving Experience
Raceway in Atlanta, Georgia. Although there is no distribution, LA PA signed a DSA
with the production company for one day of filming a Marine recruiter as he talks about
his love for NASCAR and the Marine Corps. MPA Atlanta provided media escort
October 22nd. Producer and Atlanta MPA reported the shoot was successful. LAPA
reached out to the producers 13 May to review rough cut.

“Curiousity: The Questions of Life” - Discovery Channel: Discovery Studios is
producing this series, which explores the origins of violence with a scientific approach.
Producers filmed for three days with a drill instructor from MCRD SD to highlight the
psychological training that prepares a Marine for combat. Support complete. Phone
conversation on 9 May has production near the end of completion of rough cut.
DOCUMENTARIES:

“Secret Pakistan” - BBC Worldwide: This series aims to tell the definitive history of the
Afghan-Pakistan theatre since 9/11, providing an authoritative account starting with the


#<# EXTRACTED PAGE START 0003 #>#

initial successes of Operation Enduring Freedom, then tracing how the Taliban
regrouped in Pakistan and subsequently used this safe haven to impact on the
population of Pakistan, Coalition forces in Afghanistan, and civilian populations around
the world. Producers will end by examining the degree of success achieved by both the
surge of U.S. forces in 2009 and the new strategy of population-centric COIN pioneered
by US Generals McChrystal and Petraeus. The production will use a mixture of
eyewitness testimony from soldiers, politicians and civilians from all sides (American,
British, Afghan and Pakistani), and will feature archive footage to illustrate key
episodes. OSD is currently vetting the proposal.

“Horizon” — BBC: BBC Factual London Productions has requested to interview Marines
for an episode of their series titled “The Science of Morality.” The series explores the
science of moral decision-making, covering neuroscience, psychology and genetics in
an attempt to find out why humans have a ‘moral conscience.’ The production wants to
interview Marines as they represent a special section of society: they are asked, ina
split-second, to make a special kind of moral decision in combat. TECOM PA has set
dates of 6-10 June for interviews with MACE personnel. DSA sent to production for
signature 11 May.

“Superpowers” — History Channel: Asylum Entertainment is creating a two-hour
documentary on the military makes the US a “superpower,” with the intentions of
developing a series for the network. Production has requested to film several pieces of
equipment, coupled with SME interviews, during mid-May. USAF LA PA has lead.
Currently awaiting answer from MSCs to FOS request sent by LA PA. Filming to be
conducted May 23 aboard MCAS Miramar.

“Alternative History” — History Channel: Flight 33 Productions interviewed (°)(°)

(0)(6) n Aug 10 in order to comment on scenarios if an alternative outcome
came of past wars and battles. Initial episode has been ordered by network and
production has requested to interview (°)(°) on 13 May. Each episode opens with a
key moment in history where the production changes or reverses the outcome, and then
builds an alternative history that is grounded in the realities of a particular era. DSA
executed in Aug 10. Interview conducted 14 May. Awaiting rough cut.

“Blood We Shed” — Independent: Marines from WWBN East created a basic
documentary discussing their injuries sustained in Iraq. Command wants to allow
Marines to attend the GI FILM Festival in uniform. LA PA is recommending against the
appearance. Currently discussing with WWR PAO.

“Mojave Viper” — Original Media/JWT: JWT has contracted with Original to produce a
television documentary surrounding Mojave Viper. Have received support from TECOM
and will be coordinating with MCAGCC PAO and command for a four day shoot
potentially in June.

“Battle of Okinawa” — NHK: Producers would like to gather B-Roll of recruit training and
conduct interviews from Marines about the battle. Currently consulting with Ill MEF


#<# EXTRACTED PAGE START 0004 #>#

PAO to make determination of support.

“Battlehercs” — Silver Line Productions LLC: This independent documentary focuses on
the legacy of Marine C-130s in the Corps. Producers requested to film aboard MCAS
Cherry Point with a VMGR squadron there. 2° MAW PA escorted producers for a day
of filming in late April. The producer has requested to film with VMGR-234, the 4" MAW
unit that still uses older model C-130s, to conduct interviews with Marines and collect B-
roll of the squadron area and aircraft. As of 9 May, awaiting 4" MAW’s response.
“The Call to Serve” — 3 Minus 1 Productions: This independent documentary focuses on
young Americans who are answering the call to serve their country. MCRC approved
the proposal, and LA PA executed a production assistance agreement. 1st District is
facilitating support, which consists of highlighting the efforts of recruiters in the NY area.
Filming started 7 May, NY PA had escort. Possible more filming in near future.
“AMC Memorial Day Weekend Documentary Shorts” — DoD entered into an agreement
with Allentown Productions to support the production of four 5-minute shorts that
highlight different monumental occasions in the lives of service members: Enlistment,
deployment prep, being deployed and deployment return. Marines from MCAB Miramar
were interviewed as well as a 12th MCD District poolee Thursday, April 28th. Production
company is now requesting to film b-roll of the poolee exercising with his recruiter;
LAPA is looking into this request. Producers did final shoot 10 May with poolee and the
recruiter during a PT session at a park near the recruiting office. LAPA contacted
production company 19 May for follow up on rough cuts. LAPA contacted producers
19 May for rough cuts.

“AMC Memorial Day Weekend Bumpers” — DoD entered into an agreement with this
production company to provide service members in uniform for a shoot in Chicago.
Producers filmed several polished close-ups of RS Chicago Marines in dress blues, and
the images will be used to create images and graphic elements that will serve as
bumpers in and out of commercial breaks during AMC Memorial Day Weekend
programming schedule. Viewed rough cut with no changes recommended from any
of the services.

“Small Town Boy” — Real American Hero LLC: Former °°) is creating a
documentary on Lance Cpl. Jonathan Kyle Price, a friend who was killed in Iraq. He
requested to film aboard MCRD San Diego to capture B-roll footage of recruit training
and interview two drill instructors. MCRD San Diego PAO agreed to let him shoot
aboard the base and LA PAO created a DSA March 24th. DSA executed. MCRD San
Diego PA escorted April 25th. LAPA contacted the producer 16 May concerning
update on rough cut.

“Togetherness” — MC Heritage Foundation: Pecan Productions has requested to embed
Prof. Andrew Lubin with Il MEF (Fwd) units in Afghanistan to highlight the efforts of
Marines. DSA executed. Awaiting complete turnover and adjustment of | MEF and II
MEF. Embed began 12 May, anticipated return of 18 June.


#<# EXTRACTED PAGE START 0005 #>#

“Route 66 — Along The Mother Road” — Adler Productions is producing a three series
documentary featuring Route 66. A portion of the route is in close proximity to
MCCAGTC 29 Palms and the production wishes to highlight the everyday life and
training that occurs in the Mojave Desert. DSA executed. 29 Palms PA to escort
filming on 23 May. MCCAGTC is currently under a three-week training stand down
to allow trainers to execute annual leave. Production is aware and plans to re-
engage the first week of Oct for filming.

“The Young Marines” — Independent release: Corduroy Media is producing this
documentary, which follows the lives of four young people as they enter recruit training
for The Young Marines youth program. The film not only highlights the program but the
characters that participate, focusing on the recruits’ private lives as well as their
experience in recruit training. Producers filmed a day in the life of CWO3 John Walter,
the guardian of one of the young boys Feb. 4.

‘Wild Planet: North America” — Discovery Channel: Wild Horizons productions contacted
LA PA to film aboard MCAS Yuma for an episode titled “Deserts.” The series takes an
all-encompassing view of the North American continent from the arctic to Mexico and
covers topics including mountains, forests, deserts, plains, coasts and rivers. “Deserts”
will feature the fringe-toed lizard, sand swimmers, and sidewinders. DSA executed,
Yuma PA has escort. Filming aboard base completed 13 April. Email reply on 16 May
will have production editing at the beginning of 2012, with anticipated rough cut
approximately one month after.

“Surviving The Cut” — Discovery Channel: 2 Roosters Media has been contracted to
produce a second season of the highly-rated series and requested to film the
Reconnaissance Team Leaders Course at SOI-W. TECOM PA and SOI command
deck onboard. DSA executed. A portion of the training depicted in the series will take
place aboard Naval Base Coronado, coordination with Navy LA PA established. Due to
concerns from SOI-W staff about course execution (second iteration of actual course),
on 23 Feb, filming has been delayed to the third iteration of the course in late July.
Coordination from TECOM down will resume 1 May. Met with production and SOI-
W/AITB on 23 Mar. and discussed logistical support. Tentative dates set for filming of
RTLC 2-11, which begins 25 July. Email conversation with RTC on 4 May finds a
hold by HQMC for training funds. Anticipate a full answer by mid-May for
locations and training schedule.

“Operation Flintlock” — PBS: Triple Threat Television interviewed Marine poolees at RS
Denver alongside WWII Marine pilots on 22 Dec. Documentary covers the pilots that
crashed into the Pacific and their survival story. The goal is to have these pilots speak
with upcoming recruits and what the title of “Marine” means to them. DSA executed.
Denver OSO (PAO) escorted film crew. Awaiting rough cut. Email conversation with
production on 4 May has feature in edit with unknown completion date.


#<# EXTRACTED PAGE START 0006 #>#

‘Vietnam in HD”- History Channel: Producers with Lou Reda Productions requested to
digitize Marine Corps History Division’s stock Vietnam footage for a six-part
documentary series on Vietnam. DSA executed. Email correspondence on 20 April has
production still in edit, with anticipation of rough cut in Fall 2011. LAPA contacted
producers for update on rough cut 17 May.

“Forgotten Flag Raisers” - Independent: Out In Front Productions, LLC is requesting to
interview key personnel with the Marine History Division and film the negatives of the
first flag raising on lwo Jima along with b-roll establishment footage of the base. The
documentary focuses on the untold story of the very first flag raisers that were
overshadowed by the Marines and sailors during Rosenthal’s photo shoot. They are
requesting to film Nov. 1-2 at the Marine History Division. DSA executed. MCB
Quantico escorted film crew. Producers informed LAPA their rough cut will be ready
Fall 2011. LAPA contacted producers 17 May for rough cut update.

“Live Fire’- Discovery Channel (Discovery 3-D Network): Flight 33 Productions
approached LA PA to film three initial episodes for the new Discovery 3-D channel.
This would be the first military documentary shot in 3-D. The production initially
requested to film the “air, land and sea” that makes the Marine Corps. Episodes will air
on the 3-D channel as well as in 2-D for the present Discovery Channel. DSA executed.
Initial filming of weapons for the “land” episode conducted with SOI-W in Feb. Currently
seeking permission from 29 Palms PA to film gunnery ranges to supplement “land.”
Filming for “air” episode began 10 Mar, with in-flight support from MAG-39. Interviews
of MAG-39 CO and HMM-367 completed 15 Mar. TRAP mission filming for 7 Apr
(MAG-39) was cancelled due to CMC mandatory safety stand down due to recent
aviation mishaps, squadron may reschedule for May or June. Machine Gun range
filming completed 9 April with EMV at 29 Palms. LAPA reviewed rough cut 19 May
and sent corrections back to production. Awaiting air date.

“Combat Outpost: Afghanistan” - PBS: Hodierne Productions LLC is producing a
character-driven documentary about Marines serving in Afghanistan. The two-hour film
focuses on three main characters and about six supporting characters from 2nd
Platoon, A Co., 2/1. Production is experiencing budgeting issues and is unable to finish
a rough cut by the original expected date. Anticipate rough cut in summer 2011.

“Patrol Base Jaker” — Independent Release: Producer Dave Scantling’s film documents
1/5’s operations in Helmand Province. Scantling conducted one final interview Feb. 24
at 1/5’s headquarters area. Producer informed LAPA 16 May that production is
wrapping up and will inform us when rough cut is available.

“Marines in the South Pacific” — Military Channel: SFR Productions is producing a
documentary using Marine Corps Museum footage and photographs to highlight the
island-hopping campaign of World War II, with a focus on the struggle endured by the
men fighting in the South Pacific. DSA executed and production is working with the
USMC museum to obtain materials. Production is currently in the editing process.
Reviewed the initial half of the show on 1 Feb. with no discrepancies. Producer is


#<# EXTRACTED PAGE START 0007 #>#

currently working an enormous amount of other projects, but anticipates a full rough late
summer 2011.

“Marine K-9” — Military Channel: Harris Done Productions interviewed Marine K-9
trainers at Lackland AFB and CPEN to highlight modern day combat with K-9s. DSA
executed. Final interview completed in 10 Nov 2010. Production is in the editing
process as of 30 Apr. Rough cut expected around end of June.

VIDEO GAMES:

“Marine” — Marine Corps: Working icw Trademark & Licensing office in the
development of a video game that takes the player through historic points
throughout Marine Corps history. Will conduct several meetings during E3 and
the Licensing Expo in June.

“Operation Flashpoint 2” - Codemasters: Producers have requested to use Marine
Corps trademarked items for the video game. LA PA is currently awaiting a Beta
version to determine suitability. Game pits the Marine Corps against ‘a Chinese
faction’. Met with producers 20 Apr to view game and to discuss opportunities
with Operation Flashpoint 3 which will begin production this summer. No formal
support is being offered to Operation Flashpoint 2 due to anti-China sentiment.
“Call of Duty 5’—Infinity Ward: LA PA met with Executive Producer this week to
discuss support. Company would like access to a Tank, and LCAC, and a C-130.
Currently awaiting more information about the game in order to make decision.
PROJECTS COMPLETE:

DENIED REQUESTS:

“Women of War” — No distribution: Producers requested to film a Marine expert in
sexually traumatic incidents relating to PTSD in female service members. Due to
the lack of distribution, LAPA denied their request May 19, but has offered to
send them an official response on how the Marine Corps investigates rape
allegations.

“MADE” — MTV: Producers with MTV requested to film a Marine homecoming with
CLB-26. The show’s star is the sister of the Marine. LAPA denied the request
because there it has very little to do with the Marine Corps, and also the lack of
availability to support due to the high operational tempo of LAPA and IMEF.
“Hoarders: Buried Alive” — TLC: Discovery Studios, LLC is requested 10 Marines to
participate in an upcoming episode. A retired gunnery sergeant, living in Hooper’s
Island, MD needs help removing multiple projects he has left in his yard. The production


#<# EXTRACTED PAGE START 0008 #>#

crew wanted to surprise him during the last day of the shoot, 26 May. LAPA will deny
due to location and varying units unavailability to support.

PENDING AIR DATE:

“Safe House” — Warner Bros: Spy Thriller with Denzel Washington. Production has
asked for limited support in ensuring accuracy of script/uniforms for scene where MSG
Marines at an embassy secure a CIA spy. Have reviewed uniforms and extra’s serving
as Marines. Scenes were shot on 18 Apr. Date of release is TBD.

“The Lucky One” — Warner Bros: Motion Picture about a Marine who returns to North
Carolina after serving three tours in Iraq and searches for the unknown woman he
believes was his good luck charm during the war. Zach Efron is playing the lead
Marine. Assistance by MARFORRES was provided during 17-23 December in the way
of vehicles and one UH-1 Huey. Movie is set to come out in Fall of 2012.

“In The Pursuit of Happiness” — Mayfair Films: Producers from Mayfair Film Partnership
and Vanity Projects approached LA PA concerning a film featuring Russell Brand, an
award-winning comic and actor. In the feature, Brand will use his own experience of
aspiring and achieving fame to address wider cultural issues and explore how our
quality of life has been affected by celebrity and new media. SOI-W supported with the
shoot in May 2010. Picture is still in post-production and LA PA is waiting rough cut
screenings.

“Battleship” — Universal Pictures: Taken from the concept of the childhood game, a
force of aliens attack the infrastructure of Earth by first destroying the military
capabilities of the U.S. Distribution is in place. Navy LA PA has lead. Support
complete at MCB Kaneohe Bay on 8 Oct. Production went smoothly and was well
received by base command. Movie is set to be released summer 2011.

“Moneyball” — Columbia Pictures: Film tells the true story of Oakland A's general
manager Billy Beane. Brad Pitt, Phillip Seymour Hoffman and Robin Wright star. LA PA
provided a color guard and a Flag Detail for a scene depicting opening day of the 2002
MLB season at Oakland Coliseum.

“Transformers 3” — Paramount Pictures: | MEF provided three MTVRs and six Marines
from 7-11 June in Long Beach. OSD PA asked for permission to use footage from T2 in
T3, which was granted. LA PA viewed the rough cut May 5; no issues with Marine
depictions. In theaters July 1.

“Warrior’- Lionsgate: LA PA helped producers locate and solicit Marine extras for this
movie, which is filming in Pittsburgh, Penn., and also sent a representative June 15 to
advise on a battle scene set in Iraq. LA PA was present at final shoot in Pittsburgh, PA.
LA PA reviewed the movie and suggested one minor change. Movie is anticipated to
come out in Summer of 2011. Conducting screenings at numerous installations in June.


#<# EXTRACTED PAGE START 0009 #>#

“Surviving D-Day” — Discovery Channel: Dangerous Entertainment interviewed (°°)
(°°) HQMC, about amphibious operations, specifically beach raids similar to that of
Omaha Beach on D-Day. DSA executed. Interview completed 29 April. Production
also interviewed °°) on 5 Oct. to supplement footage. Reviewed
rough cut on 28 Feb with no discrepancies. Email response from production on 3
May has no set air date.

“Jim Zumbo Outdoors” — Outdoor Channel: Winnercomm Productions filmed three
Marines from the Wounded Warrior Regiment, Quantico, on a hunt in an effort to help
provide recreational rehabilitation opportunities to wounded veterans. PAA executed.
Filming completed in mid-Dec. Email correspondence on 1 Feb has the production in
the editing process. Reviewed rough cut on 5 May with no issues. Awaiting air date,
anticipate June.

“Sniper: The Unseen Warrior” (formerly “The American Sniper”) — Mill Creek
Entertainment: Centre Communications Inc. interviewed 2d MarDiv Scout Snipers 16-17
Nov. to supplement three episode of a series highlighting snipers. The production will
go straight to DVD. DSA executed. Reviewed rough cuts on 22 Feb, noting one minor
discrepancy. Email with production on 4 May has DVD release in mid-July.

“Aviators” — PBS: FourPoints Television Productions requests to interview F/A-18 pilots
and the base museum curator at MCAS Miramar Nov. 9th. The pilot questions would
be focused around what it takes to be a fighter pilot and the museum curator’s
questions would be about the base’s history, significance and importance in today’s
military. DSA executed. Miramar PA escorted crew Nov. 9, and all went well. Reviewed
rough cut 14 Apr with no discrepancies. Producers informed LAPA 16 May there
were no updates. Awaiting air date in September.
